So as a developer,
your GitHub profile is essential to,
your professional brand, right?
The harsh reality is that even
a person that doesn't know anything
about GitHub ie the user number
two is gonna go there, right?
And they're gonna judge you based upon
the most arbitrary things on your GitHub.
Hey, guess what, I don't see a user image.
Hey, I don't see a GitHub profile Read me.
I don't see any pan projects.
I don't see anything that showcases that
you're native to this platform, right?
And this person doesn't write code at all,
right?
The AI, ATS systems, the chat bots,
the things that are gonna be checking,
the links that are,
the HRAI tools that check the links.
And then can actually pick up
how many repos do you have and
does this specialized repo exist and
things like that.
They're gonna judge you too, right?
You're gonna get flagged for those things.
So you have to pay special attention,
as a programmer,
we're told that the resume
is the first thing if
you're gonna build your
build a opinion about you.
For me I can't get into finance
like it's gonna be the third,
the first thing that people tend
to build opinion about you is
your portfolio, I mean,
is your GitHub profile.
That's what I've seen like I myself,
I build totally biased,
I build it like I will formulate half
of my opinion on a programmer based
upon what I see on their GitHub,
like immediately, right?
When applying for jobs and employers, they
have reviewed GitHub talking about that.
So let's look at what I view
started with my own and
then I move over to someone else's as a,
at least a strong professional
read profile, right?
So this is my profile,
this is my legit, this is me, who I am,
that's my face right there.
Hi, I'm Jerome,
Executive Director of Vets Who Code.
I have a link here from
my Versale project.
It shows how many times people
have looked at my profile.
I've also been putting on
another link from this,
if you were to go here and
look at the raw.
I'm pulling these links in where
I've attached them to my GitHub,
so that way you can see these
GitHub trophy versale app,
put my username, as well as the label for
my profile views.
Both of those are separate projects.
And I'm pulling in the,
connect it to my GitHub app, so
that people can see now what
I've done in these, right?
So here I am, I have, hey, I jumped up,
a lot of y'all looking, okay, no stress.
Multi language, I guess there might
be some like PHP still in there.
Followers, some hyper celebrity.
I don't know what that
means in GitHub land.
[LAUGH] Repositories issues,
pull requests, commits, reviews and stars.
So this is all like the little trophies
that they have out there on that API.
I'm telling people what I'm
currently what I'm working on,
what I'm currently doing,
currently recording Frontend masters,
currently learning Azure AI services,
AWS Amplify, Python.
I'm recording nothing next because
I am gonna be potty training duty
starting next week with my one year old.
Always looking for
help with Vets Who Code.
The things that people have asked me
about is Git, React Next JS, AI tools and
getting a software engineering job which
you all are here for it, yay, all right?
So connect with me, I tend to leave
blank because 8 billion people will
reach out to me in an 8
billion ways all the time,
I have like 40 messages right now
on LinkedIn alone because of this.
So [LAUGH] I'm like, you'll figure out
how to find me, I don't have to say this.
Languages and tools,
these are languages and
tools that I still use to this day,
either teaching or at work.
So that's why they're all on here.
The only reason Ruby on Rails and
SaaS on here is because I use it.
PHP probably should get off there
cuz I don't wanna get paid for it.
Postgres, MySQL, that's a great hardware
tool that I've used for
the lights at my house.
So basically when the pandemic
started I use if this and that and
Node.js to make a project with Arduino, so
that my lights would have a party
mode that would attach to Spotify and
our Philips Hughes, and they would
just be like a disco on birthdays,
because it couldn't go anywhere,
we're all at home.
And it was a golfer to kids.
Yes, sir?
>> Do you have any thoughts
on using real photos versus,
like Avatar [INAUDIBLE] Github??
>> Well, for my pro Gityhub profile,
I have my actual face.
I don't have opinions against it.
I think it's weird unless it's
a part of your personality.
Or maybe you have like a drawn version,
cuz I've seen that and
those are very cool.
And I'm like, yo, that's awesome.
I mean, I don't think people would
think one thing or the other.
It's just it's a part of your brand,
right?
Just don't, so yeah,
I'm not against it, I mean,
I prefer showing my real face
on this this, especially GitHub,
GitHub is not just for
jobs, social, right?
You're building relationship on GitHub,
your followers, the people you follow,
GitHub discussions, GitHub issues,
going into these open source projects.
So it helps to know how that person looks
like as they're talking to you, right?
Or you're talking to them.
Here, I have most used languages,
which is Java.
So 9% of my projects, my code is PHP, so
it is still there somewhere,
I haven't gotten rid of all of it.
Ruby on Rails, CSS, JavaScript and HTML.
So I mean, maybe if I was using like those
ratings that you all talking about and
say how much of each language I have
written, that would make sense.
But I wouldn't do that,
just don't rate yourself
on your performance on your own code
on your resumes or your portfolios.
My GitHub stats and my total
contributions, that's all a part of
the special profile special
readme call your profile readme.
So for
mines is JeromeHardaway\JeromeHardaway.
For yours,
it will be the name of your GitHub name
backslash your GitHub name, right?
So I go here,
mine is JeromeHardaway\JeromeHardaway.
So whatever your GitHub profile name is,
that is your GitHub profile,
the backslash of it again
is gonna GoitHub profile.
As you see, it lets you know that it
is a special a special repository.
It's one of two special repos
that you can have that and
the funding, YAML for
if you're being sponsored for
open source projects,
things of that nature.
So I definitely recommend you
look build that look into it.
And they have generators
out there as well,
they can help you expedite building
it out or you can build it out with
JS old school HTML CSS,
a little bit of JavaScript and Markdown.